What are Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS)?
Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS), an interesting service offered by Microsoft Azure, helps to create and manage a set of identical, auto-scaling Virtual Machines (VMs). 
The number of VM instances can automatically increase or decrease based on scheduled conditions.


Auto-Scaling
Auto-scaling is a way to automatically scale up or down the number of compute resources that are being 
allocated to your application based on its needs at any given time.

Here are the most popular ways of auto-scaling:

Horizontal Scaling :
Vertical Scaling :

Vertical Scaling:
Vertical Scaling is an attempt to increase or decrease the capacity of a single machine, also called scaling up or down. 
Here the resources such as processing power, storage, memory, and more are added to an existing work unit.

Horizontal Scaling:
Horizontal Scaling is a must-use technology – whenever a high availability of (server) services is required, also called scaling out and in, means adding or removing instances of a resource. 
Scaling horizontally involves adding more processing units or physical machines to your server or database

Scale-out : is the process of adding extra resources, such as virtual machines (VMs)
Scale-in :  refers to the process of reducing the number of virtual machines (VMs) in the scale set.

Autoscale Settings
An autoscale setting is read by the autoscale engine to determine whether to scale up or down.

You can create custom autoscaling rules as needed for your situation. Rule types include:

Minimum Instance: The minimum number of instances you want to deploy in your scale set.
Maximum Instances: The maximum number of instances you want to deploy while scaling out. (Note: In Azure, you can have a maximum, of 1000 instances)
Metric-based – It measures application load and adds or removes VMs based on that load. For example, add an instance in a scale set when CPU usage is above 50%.
Time-based – For example, trigger an instance every 8 am on Saturday in a given time zone.

